
2017


Wins three of the first six Grands Prix to head Mercedes’ Lewis Hamilton as championship favourite. However, a combination of reliability niggles and driver errors – including running into the back of Hamilton under the safety car in Baku – see the wheels come off his challenge and he ends the year as runner-up, 46 points shy of his rival with a total of five race victories.

2016


Unable to stop Ferrari falling off the race-winning pace of Mercedes and Red Bull, and the tension shows both on and off the track. Drops out of the top three in the final standings for the first time since 2008, despite a hard-won seven podium finishes, including an emotional third place at Monza.

2015


Revives his reputation with a stellar first season for Ferrari, in which he is the only non-Mercedes driver to win a Grand Prix, taking victory three times and finishing on the podium a further 10, leaving team mate Kimi Raikkonen in his wake. 

2014


Struggles to match team mate Ricciardo as Red Bull fall off pace with 2014's dramatic technical rule changes. Announces in October that he will leave team at end of year, moving to Ferrari. Second in Singapore his best result. Slips to fifth in final standings.

2013


Courts controversy early on by ignoring team orders and passing team mate Webber to win in Malaysia. A further 12 victories - including the last nine rounds - matches Schumacher's record of 13 wins in a season and ease him to a fourth consecutive title.

2012


Slow to adjust to the blown diffuser-less RB8 and has to wait until the fourth round in Bahrain to score his first pole position and race victory of the season. A late-campaign surge including four consecutive wins helps lift him to a third successive drivers' title.

2011


Totally dominates for Red Bull, becoming youngest double world champion in F1 history with four rounds to spare. Scores 11 wins and a record 15 pole positions.

2010


Despite some driver errors and technical maladies - plus tense rivalry with team mate Webber - supreme pace brings 10 poles and five victories en route to becoming youngest champion in F1 history. Comes from third in standings to clinch title with win at final round in Abu Dhabi.

2009


Continues to make the headlines for all the right reasons. Scores Red Bull's maiden pole and win in China, before winning again at Silverstone and Suzuka. A final victory at the season-ending Abu Dhabi Grand Prix helps him clinch second in the drivers' championship.

2008


First full season of Formula One sees him become the sport's youngest winner with a stunning wet-weather victory at Monza. Finishes eighth overall with 35 points and rewarded with a switch from Toro Rosso to Red Bull's 'senior' RBR team for 2009.

2007


Becomes sport's youngest point scorer when he stands in for BMW's Robert Kubica at Indy, finishing eighth. Secures full-time Toro Rosso race seat from August's Hungarian Grand Prix and earns the team their best result to date with fourth place in China.

2006


Runner-up in Formula Three Euro Series after three race wins. Competes in three World Series by Renault events, winning two. Named BMW Sauber's Friday test and reserve driver - five successful third-driver outings.

2005


Fifth in the Formula 3 Euro Series, declared best rookie driver after clinching five podiums. Enjoys first Formula One test with BMW Williams at Jerez.

2004


Formula BMW ADAC champion - finishes on podium in all 20 races, taking 18 victories.

2003


Claims second place in the Formula BMW ADAC championship after winning five of the 19 races.

2001


Wins German and European Junior karting titles.

