
2016


Cements his reputation as one of F1's topflight stars, upping his game upon the arrival of new Red Bull team mate Max Verstappen. Wins in Malaysia and scores a further seven podiums to finish third in the standings, beaten only by the Mercedes drivers. Also establishes his own trademark celebration, the 'Shoey'.

2015


Hamstrung by less competitive and more unreliable machinery than the year before, Ricciardo is unable to return to winning ways, and despite two podium finishes is pipped to seventh place in the championship by new team mate Daniil Kvyat.

2014


Exceeds all expectations by out-performing world champion team mate Vettel and scoring Red Bull's only three wins in a season dominated by Mercedes. Finishes a clear third in the standings as the leading Renault-powered driver, two places up on Vettel.

2013


Displays growing speed and maturity, outclassing Toro Rosso team mate Jean-Eric Vergne to land 2014 race seat at sister team Red Bull. Makes regular Q3 appearances, with best race results two seventh places in China and Italy.

2012


Ninth in Australia bodes well for rest of year, but campaign stymied as Toro Rosso's STR07 falters. Best run is a trio of point-scoring finishes in Singapore, Japan and Korea where he is able to mix it with faster cars. Retained by Toro Rosso for 2013.

2011


As Red Bull reserve, impresses on Fridays for Toro Rosso at first eight rounds. 'Loaned' to HRT and races from Silverstone onward, faring well against the experienced Liuzzi. Continues to compete in Formula Renault 3.5. Secures race seat at Toro Rosso for 2012.

2010

 


Runner-up in Formula Renault 3.5 championship with Tech 1 Racing. Takes four wins, eight podiums, eight pole positions and four fastest laps. Tests for Red Bull Formula One team.

2009


Dominates British Formula Three championship, taking title with six wins, 12 podiums, six pole positions and four fastest laps. Tests for the Red Bull Formula One team.

2008


Formula Renault 2.0 WEC champion with eight wins, 11 podiums, 10 pole positions and seven fastest laps. Runner-up in Formula Renault 2.0 Euro series, with six wins, seven podiums, five pole positions and five fastest laps.

2007


Sixth overall in the Italian Formula Renault 2.0 series, scoring one podium finish.

2006


Third overall in the Formula BMW Asia series for Eurasia Motorsport after two wins, 12 podiums, one pole position and three fastest laps. Fifth in the Formula BMW World series with Fortec Motorsport.

 

