
2017


Ferrari’s Sebastian Vettel replaces the retired Rosberg as his arch-rival, but rises to the challenge and comes from behind to land a fourth world title, making him the most successful British F1 driver. It’s not the only record he breaks, as he surpasses Senna and Schumacher with the most Formula 1 poles in history.

2016


Overturns a 43-point mid-season deficit to push Mercedes team mate Nico Rosberg all the way in an enthralling championship fight, which he loses in a nail-biting Abu Dhabi finale. Takes 10 wins to Rosberg’s nine, but hampered by poor starts and occasional reliability issues, ultimately comes up five points short of his career-long rival.

2015


Intense rivalry with Mercedes team mate Nico Rosberg continues, but again Hamilton prevails, winning 10 times to become only the 10th driver to become a triple world champion and the first Briton to claim back-to-back titles.

2014


Makes the most of Mercedes F1 W05 Hybrid's dominance, taking 11 wins en route to his second world title, though he is pushed all the way by team mate Rosberg, with the championship only decided between the two at the season's final round.

2013


Enjoys relatively seamless transition from McLaren to Mercedes, despite difficulties adapting to F1 W04's braking system. Scores one victory, four podiums and five poles en route to fourth in the championship, two places above team mate Nico Rosberg.

2012


The MP4-27 may have been competitive, but poor luck means the Briton has to wait until Canada to score his first win of the season. He follows it up with victories in Hungary, Italy and the USA but mechanical gremlins blunt his title charge. Signs to Mercedes for 2013.

2011


Beaten by a team mate for the first time in final standings after a frustrating season in the grid's second fastest car. Three victories countered by several stewards visits and penalties, often after clashes with Ferrari's Felipe Massa. Finishes fifth overall.

2010


Storming drives stymied by dubious strategy calls in early races, but successive wins in Turkey and Canada stake claim for second drivers' crown. Loses lead in Italy, as MP4-25 increasingly outpaced by Red Bull and Ferrari. Wins at Spa, en route to fourth overall.

2009


Disqualified from fourth in Australia for misleading race stewards. Averages a point a race until round ten, when he scores shock win after car development comes good. Four poles and four further podiums, including a win in Singapore, round off season in resurgent fashion.

2008


At 23, becomes the youngest world champion in Formula One history, after five wins and a further five podiums take him to the title by a single point on only his second attempt. Commits to McLaren until the end of 2012.

2007


Stunning debut season, scoring podiums in his first nine races. Secures four wins and six poles as he out-performs champion team mate Fernando Alonso. Title favourite until errors in final two rounds drop him to second place behind Kimi Raikkonen.

2006


Wins the GP2 championship at his first attempt, earning himself his maiden Formula One test and a McLaren race drive for 2007.

2005


Dominates the Formula Three Euroseries, taking the title with 15 wins, 10 fastest laps and 13 pole positions.

2004


Graduates to the Formula Three Euroseries. Finishes fifth overall, with one victory and a further two podiums.

2003


Wins Formula Renault title with two rounds to spare. Ten race victories, nine fastest laps and 11 pole positions.

2002


Graduates from karting to single-seaters, finishing third in the Formula Renault series.

