
2017


Dominates Toro Rosso team mate Daniil Kvyat, but when it becomes clear there will be no Red Bull Racing vacancies in the near future, agrees a deal to be loaned to Renault for 2018, before making an early switch to his new team for the final four rounds of the year.

2016


Quickly emerges as a rising star, with consistently strong performances against Toro Rosso team mates Max Verstappen and then Daniil Kvyat. Despite his machinery's limited competitiveness, scores points on no less than 10 occasions, including sixth places in Spain, the USA and Brazil.

2015


Takes to F1 like a duck to water, scoring two points on his race debut in Australia, but too often his impressive speed is overshadowed by unreliability. Bounces back from a frightening accident in Russia to accumulate 18 points, with fifth on the grid at home in Spain and seventh place in the USA the obvious highlights of a promising rookie campaign.

2014


Dominates in Formula Renault 3.5 to become the series' youngest ever champion. Seven wins help him wrap the title up early and also put him in contention for a 2015 Toro Rosso drive, which he duly lands after testing for Red Bull at the end of the year.

2013


Switches from F3 to GP3, but despite flashes of brilliance - including two podiums - struggles to make an impact. Shines in what was meant to be a one-off outing in Formula Renault 3.5, and ends up contesting the run-in. Tests for Red Bull and Toro Rosso.

2012


Moves into FIA European F3 full-time and takes his first series victory, and a further five podiums, to finish fifth overall. Also racks up four wins and nine podiums in British F3.

2011


Graduates into the highly acclaimed Formula Renault 2.0 NEC series and flourishes, winning 10 times and collecting 17 podiums to beat Daniil Kvyat to the title. Contests a selection of F3 races, including Macau.

2010


Becomes a Red Bull junior, and then wins a scholarship to compete in Formula BMW. Triumphs in both the European and Pacific series, and also takes podiums from select outings in Euro F3 Open and Formula Renault 2.0 Euro.

