
2017


Falls back into a supporting role to Ferrari partner Sebastian Vettel’s championship bid, making regular podium appearances, but scoring zero wins to his team mate’s five.

2016


Ferrari fall off the leading pace, though the car seems more to Raikkonen's liking and his form rises dramatically in the latter part of the season. Out-scored by team mate Vettel, but takes four podiums and betters the German in the head-to-head qualifying stakes.

2015


Ferrari's form improves, but Raikkonen's relative to his team mate - now Sebastian Vettel - doesn't. Secures just three podiums to the German's 13, and zero wins to his colleague's three. Finishes fourth in the driver standings.

2014


First season back at Ferrari proves highly disappointing as he struggles to gel with the less-than-competitive F14 T. Fails to make the podium, with fourth in Belgium his best result. Finishes 12th overall, six places and 106 points behind team mate Alonso.

2013


Emerges as early title contender after brilliant win in Australia and three consecutive second places in China, Bahrain and Spain, before Lotus form takes slight dip. Signs for Ferrari for 2014 in September and misses last two rounds of season for back surgery.

2012


Five podiums - including three second-place finishes - from opening 11 races is a great start to the Finn's comeback season, but a win remains elusive until the 18th round in Abu Dhabi. Victory combined with brilliant consistency helps solidify a strong third place in the standings.

2011


Competes for a second season in the World Rally Championship. Struggles to make much of an impression and signs to make his Formula One comeback with Lotus in 2012.

2010


Leaves Formula One racing to pursue a career in rallying. Competes in 11 rounds of the World Rally Championship. Best finish is fifth in Turkey.

2009


Lacklustre early form prompts talk of lack of interest, but breaks back onto podium with third in Monaco, second in Hungary and Ferrari's only 2009 win in Belgium. Drops off pace in latter races as team halt F60 development. Loses drive to Alonso for 2010.

2008


Strong start to season before championship-winning form of 2007 deserts him, particularly in qualifying. Ends year playing supporting role to team mate Felipe Massa, despite a record-equalling 10 fastest laps. Re-signs for a further two seasons with Ferrari.

2007


Wins on his very first appearance for Ferrari in Australia and goes on to take a further five victories, including a vital win at the final round in Brazil, which sees him come from behind to take his first drivers' title by a single point.

2006


Fails to win a race in final season for McLaren, whose car is unable to match the performance of Renault's and Ferrari's. Nevertheless scores in every round he finishes to take fifth in the standings. Signs new deal with Ferrari for 2007.

2005


Five poles, seven wins, five podiums, but only second in the championship due to reliability issues. Greatest victory arguably at Suzuka, where he starts 17th on the grid and passes Renault's Giancarlo Fisichella on the final lap to win.

2004


Early-season reliability problems put an early end to championship hopes, but he proves his resilience with pole position at Silverstone and a superb victory over Ferrari's Michael Schumacher in the Belgian Grand Prix.

2003


Takes maiden Grand Prix win in Malaysia and a total of ten podium finishes. Emerges as Michael Schumacher's most consistent title challenger. Runner-up in the drivers' championship, just two points behind the German.

2002


Joins McLaren and takes three third places and a second in his first season with the team.

2001


A strong debut season for Sauber. He takes nine points to finish 10th in the drivers' championship and manages ten top-ten qualifying performances.

2000


British Formula Renault champion. Competes in three rounds of the European Formula Renault championship and takes two wins, two poles and two fastest laps.

1999


Competes in British Formula Ford and Formula Renault, winning the latter's winter series.

1998


Finnish karting champion, plus strong performances in numerous international karting series.

