
2017


Scores just 17 points in what is a tough final year of McLaren's revived Honda partnership.  A maiden appearance in the Indy 500 provides an entertaining distraction, though ironically this too ends with Honda engine failure. A promise of Renault power for 2018 persuades him to stay on, however.

2016


Sits out round two in Bahrain after walking away from a huge crash in Australia's season opener. Goes on to make the very most of his somewhat improved McLaren machinery, with some feisty drives - including a superb fifth place in Monaco - earning him 54 points, more than twice that of team mate Jenson Button.

2015


Return to McLaren coincides with team's tough first season of revived partnership with Honda. MP4-30 car proves painfully slow and unreliable, and in it Alonso scores in just two races, ending the year with a meagre 11 points.

2014


As quick and consistent as ever, but cannot stop Ferrari faltering to first winless season since 1993 with the uncompetitive F14 T. Dominates team mate Raikkonen, but makes just two podium appearances en route to P6 in the standings and quits team at end of season.

2013


Early season blighted by inconsistency, but fine wins in China and Spain plus seven further podiums mean he finishes a clear, albeit distant, second overall to Red Bull's all-conquering Sebastian Vettel - despite the Ferrari being not even the second-best car.

2012


Despite the F2012's difficult beginnings, drives immaculately to score superb wins in Malaysia, Valencia and Germany and take healthy championship lead into the summer break. Ultimately loses out to resurgent Vettel, but pushes title race to final round.

2011


Outdrives a car clearly inferior to Red Bull and McLaren opposition to score one win and nine podiums, crushing team mate Felipe Massa in the process. Misses out on third place overall by a single point to Red Bull's Mark Webber.

2010


Asserts authority over team mate Massa with debut Ferrari win in Bahrain. Car struggles at subsequent rounds, but back on form by July. Overhauls 47-point deficit to lead standings before final race, where poor pit strategy sees him miss out on title, despite five season wins.

2009


Hampered by a less than competitive Renault car, struggles to break clear of the midfield. Scores an unexpected pole in Hungary, but retires from the race after losing a wheel following a bungled pit stop. Back on the podium in Singapore and signs for Ferrari for 2010.

2008


Helps transform Renault's R28 from a lacklustre performer into a race-winning machine, scoring back-to-back victories late in the season, including Formula One's inaugural night race in Singapore. Finishes fifth overall and commits to the team for another two years.

2007


Tumultuous first season with McLaren, finishing third overall, level on points with rookie team mate Lewis Hamilton. Scores four wins, but relationship with team deteriorates after Ferrari 'spy scandal' affair. Quits to return to Renault for 2008.

2006


Dominates the first half of the season with Renault, taking six wins from nine races, then fights off strong challenge from Michael Schumacher and Ferrari to successfully defend his drivers' title.

2005


Scores seven victories en route to becoming the sport's youngest ever champion, aged just 24. Mature and measured performances in later races bring him the crown with two rounds to spare, seeing off Kimi Raikkonen in a quicker McLaren.

2004


Strong, if ultimately disappointing season. Dominates team mate Jarno Trulli to finish fourth in the standings. Pole position at Magny-Cours and four podium placings, including second in France.

2003


In Renault race seat is quickly hailed as the next Michael Schumacher. Becomes youngest ever pole sitter in Malaysia. Takes pole and victory in Hungary, lapping Schumacher in the process. Sixth in the driver standings.

2002


Official test driver for Renault, putting in thousands of development kilometres. Also has one-off test with Jaguar.

2001


Formula One debut season with Minardi. Best finish is a tenth place in Germany.

2000


Moves to Formula 3000 with the Astromega team and scores a victory at the challenging Spa-Francorchamps circuit. Finishes the championship in fourth place.

1999


Dominant performance in the Euro-Open Movistar Nissan single-seater series, with nine poles and six wins on his way to championship victory.

1998

Runner-up in the European karting championship.

